# FCE Protocol 3.28.2023

Department: Front Office
Last edited: June 1, 2023 2:21 AM
Last edited by: Addison
Type: Done

# FCE Protocol What is an FCE?

> An FCE is a Functional Capacity Evaluation which is a one-time evaluation to determine the ability of the person to function in a variety of circumstances in an objective manner. An FCE can help determine if the person is physically ready to go back to their job. Our standardized FCE process (Key Method), can help determine the level of participation and activity that is safe for the patient following rehab, providing the highest probability for return to work without re- injury.
> 
> 
> The purpose of this protocol is to outline a process for an FCE from the point of intake to scheduling. When you receive a phone call inquiring about an FCE, follow the steps below:
> 
1. Let the caller know that we do perform FCEs. Not all our clinics offer FCEs; **DO NOT** instruct the caller to call the location that performs the FCEs if your clinic does not offer them.
    1. With the caller/patient on the phone, obtain all the necessary information (same as a Work Comp or Auto claim)
    
    # Fully onboard the patient into Agile.
    
    1. Explain to the patient that you will be calling them back with a date and time for their evaluation once we have authorization for their FCE.
    2. Do **NOT** send the patient their paperwork to complete prior to their appointment as it will need to be completed in-clinic as part of their evaluation.
    3. **DO NOT SCHEDULE THE PATIENT.** Julie Riordan and your FCE provider will quarterback **ALL FCE referrals** and scheduling of **ALL FCE appointments** regardless if your location performs the FCE or not. This is extremely important as we need the necessary authorization to proceed prior to scheduling.
2. Email Julie Riordan, copying your FCE provider and Lindsey Nicholson, that you have received a FCE referral. Flag the email as high importance and title email “FCE referral needs scheduling”. Include the following info:
    1. Patient name and Case #
    2. Payer type
    3. Attach the script to the email
        
        # The script must clearly state FCE/FCA
        
3. Julie will respond with next steps which will be to obtain authorization.
    1. **If the insurance is Worker’s Compensation, Auto, or Personal Injury.** Submit for authorization.
        1. Request authorization for the FCE (97750 is the FCE CPT code)
        
        # WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION is required for ALL FCEs (the only exception is self-pay).
        
    2. If the insurance is anything other than Work Comp, Auto, PI, **the FCE will automatically be self-pay**. The VA is also considered self-pay.

(For example, all commercial insurances, Medicaid, Medicare plans, etc. will be self-pay).

1. For self-pay patients, **payment will be due in full PRIOR to starting the FCE**. Payment plans are not an option for FCEs.
2. Once you **HAVE AUTHORIZATION (WC, Auto, PI)** or **the patient has agreed to the self-pay rate**, coordinate a time with your FCE provider for the FCE. Call the patient to schedule and notify Julie that you’ve scheduled the patient. ***Please let the patient know there will be a $200 cancellation fee if the appointment is not cancelled within 24 hours of scheduled appointment time or if the patient no shows the appointment.***

> Insurance notes:
> 
- At times, an employer will request an FCE for one of their employees and the employer will be paying for the FCE directly. In this instance, the Case should be set up with the payer’s Name and address. If the Employer is not listed in Agile, the FOC will submit a helpscout ticket to have the Employer added. The employer will likely be the one calling, but if it is the employee, the FOC will call the Employer to obtain authorization to bill the Employer for the evaluation.