# FOC Tip of the Week

Department: Front Office
Last edited: June 1, 2023 2:17 AM
Last edited by: Addison
Type: Done

***FOC Tip of the Week***

- If a pre-cert company tells you at verification that the Eval is included, you must ask if **treatment** is included as well or **only** the evaluation? Some only authorize “Evaluation”, not a treatment session, very important to clarify so that our services are covered
- If you see a 12:00am encounter on your Visits without Charges report, this should be a red flag for the FOC. Open the case id and verify the DOS is accurate and that the patient was there on that date. If not, verify any encounter charge under the “Treatments/DME” tab – if there are no charges for this specific DOS, click on the “Medical Records/Retail Supply” tab. If this encounter sits in there and there are $0.00 associated across the entire line, verify if you or anyone else in your clinic sold a retail supply. If not, “trash can” this encounter as it’s not valid. If there is $ associated to it, leave it as is and submit an Agile ticket to check for accuracy.
- Avoid having your patient wait for you to make several weeks-worth of appts after their Eval. Ask your patient their time preference; morning or afternoon, confirm the next appt with them and let them be on their way informing them that you will have a schedule made for them to review when they come in for their next appt
- Always ask your patients as they leave therapy “When do we see you next?” this will tell you if they are aware of their schedule or if we may need to provide them with a new one
- Self-Pay Rate – please be discreet when offering this to our patients. This discounted rate should only be offered to a patient if they are making a specific inquiry, maxed benefits, etc. We should not be offering this discounted rate at any other time. Please use best judgment and when in doubt, reach out to your CD and/or Team Lead.
- When Interpreter Services are needed for our patient’s, we should be utilizing our new service - Cyracom Interpreter Services. This new service is expected to enhance the patient experience as well as allow us to manage the costs of interpreter services. Reach out to your Team Leads for direction on using this new service
- Ask your new patient “Have you contacted your insurance to verify your benefits?” if the answer is no, please ask them again. We want to explain to the patient that it is in their best interest to understand their benefits to ensure what we are being told at time of verification is accurate. We want to prevent any surprise balances being dropped to the patient as well as providing superior customer service
- We as FOCs need to ensure that we have a precert/authorization IN HAND for those patients whose insurance requires one, prior to treating a patient. If we treat a patient without this in hand, we MUST be sure that we can obtain a retro-authorization to get the services rendered, covered. If you CANNOT obtain a retro authorization, we must inform our CD and reschedule the patient. All communications of a patients precert/auth needs must be communicated with both the patient as well as the clinician.
- Remember to keep patient’s informed when balances drop as their responsibility and ask for payment. If a patient does not pay in full we need to be documenting in the “Notes” section of the home page, within the patient’s chart as to why we did not collect or what the arrangement is that you have discussed and was agreed upon for them to pay.
- **Patients arriving late or no-showing their appointments** – it is expected that the FOC will contact the patient within 15 minutes of their scheduled appointment time. Display genuine concern to the patients that all is ok then to confirm they are still coming to that appointment. If the patient cannot make that appointment, we must be attempting to reschedule it to another day/time that same week.
- The Self Pay form that all clinics should be using is located on our Intranet à Forms àFront Office à All Practices à Patient Self Pay Program – a link has been attached below for your reference
    
    [https://agilityhealth.sharepoint.com/:b:/s/AlliancePTPIntranetForms/EWzu-ItY4eNOpsNxee9HKBwBdz0lhXdxB9EYTyVmt3TAFA?e=1ofShc](https://agilityhealth.sharepoint.com/:b:/s/AlliancePTPIntranetForms/EWzu-ItY4eNOpsNxee9HKBwBdz0lhXdxB9EYTyVmt3TAFA?e=1ofShc)
    
- **Email Collection/Strive** – remember to ask every patient for a working email. The reasons that benefit the patient are it allows us to send them important tips and information pertaining to their diagnosis as well as exercises. It also allows Strive to send them a “Welcome Email” which includes a link within it to access the paperwork they should complete prior to coming in for their evaluation as well as directions to the clinic and information about their therapist. By doing this you do not have to send a separate email to the patient including their New Patient Paperwork.
- **Medicare Patients & Home Health** – whenever a patient presents with a Medicare insurance, **the FOC must ask those patients if they are currently enrolled in Home Health**. This can be physical therapy, or a variance of skilled nursing done within their home (bp checks, for example). If the answer is yes, we must explain to the patient that they must be discharged from Home Health prior to attending outpatient physical therapy. An oasis/discharge will be completed by the home health provider indicating the date of discharge from Home Health. If the patient is unsure, ask them for the name of the provider or a phone number and you will gladly follow up with them yourself. Explain to the patient that Medicare will not reimburse for a claim outside of the home if they are currently enrolled in home health – they must be discharged first. Medicare will not pay for both services.
- **New Patient Paperwork (Forms)** – to reduce the amount of paperwork a “returning” patient needs to complete, you can save time by presenting the patient with the following:
    - **Patient Profile Sheet (Agile)** – if all information is identical to what’s listed, you may print this out and have the patient sign & date, scan to the case. This needs to be updated yearly
    - **Medical History Form** – if all items are exactly the same from a previous Medical History form, the patient can review the previous one completed, initial and date it so we have something on file stating it was reviewed. Scan to the case. Any changes to this form, the patient must complete a new Med Hx form. This needs to be updated yearly
    - **Consent to Treat** – all patients **must** sign a new Consent to Tx at the beginning of every new episode of care
    - **HIPAA** – needs to be signed & updated yearly
    - **Additional forms such as pain scales**, MCR Secondary payer, etc., completed as needed
- **Changing Insurance Coverage** – need to make sure you end date the previous insurance, save and close. Create a new insurance with the effective date of the new insurance start date through end date 12/31/20xx. Do not change the insurance as claims may not be paid from the previous insurance carrier, we must end date that coverage.
- **New Patient Paperwork** must be scanned into the patient’s case within 24 hours of Eval. This includes the new patient packet of paperwork; Face sheet, Consent to Treat, HIPAA, Medical History; photo id, insurance card(s), Referral (Script for Therapy). In addition, you may have pain scales, questionnaires, etc. that must also be scanned within this timeframe.
- **Credit Cards on File** can never be saved or stored within Agile or anywhere within the clinic. This includes locked storage boxes, cabinets, etc. If a patient wants to have their credit card stored in order to automatically pay their copay payments, we must contact Revenue Cycle who can arrange to have their copays paid on a weekly or monthly basis (Waystar activated).
- **Onset Dates** **& Accident Box** (Agile) must be obtained & box checked within Agile when onboarding a new patient that is involved in an accident (Work Comp, Auto/MVA). We need to avoid claims rejecting due to missing this important detail. Ask the patient what the date of the accident was and confirm with the NCM/ADJ (Nurse Case Manager or Adjustor, if Work Comp) when obtaining claims address and authorization. If an Auto accident, the date of injury/onset date will be confirmed by CIV with the Claims Representative. If the date is different than what the patient provides, always use the date the NCM and/or Adjustor as well as Claims Representative has provided.
- **Financial Summary** – this summary is within every patient’s account and must be looked at and discussed with the patient if a balance is their responsibility. If a patient has a balance, it is the FOCs obligation to discuss these with the patient, explaining why they have a balance (missed copays, deductibles not being met, coinsurances) and collecting on it. Clear and consistent communication must be documented within the Home Page (Notes section) of the patient’s chart when payment is not received in full and what arrangements have been made.
- **Patient Collection Calls** – if a patient calls on their account that has been placed in Collection, the patient needs to contact the Collection Agency phone number on their collection statement. Our Billing department cannot assist on these balances as they are now in the hands of collections where they are being monitored, collected on and tracked.
- **Creating & Reopening cases** – we can reopen a case if it is for the same body part and the patient was previously treated within 30 days. If the patient does not meet the criteria, a new case needs to be created. Some examples are displayed below:
    - Same patient returning post-op, same doctor, same diagnosis: reopen SAME case if within 30 days
    - Same patient returning, same doctor, different diagnosis: NEW case
    - Same patient returning, different doctor, same diagnosis: NEW case
- **Creating a New Case for an existing patient** = If a patient has multiple cases created and the insurance coverage is the ***same***, we still need to make sure that you scan all existing insurance card(s), ID, facesheet/completed patient paperwork into the new case. This information doesn’t automatically transfer into the new case as it will have to be manually added to the new case.
- **Managing Cancels/No Shows** - If a patient cancels with an unforeseen reason that may indicate more than 1 future cancel that current week, click on that patient’s next scheduled appointment that week and put a note on that appointment stating “Call to Confirm” along with an exclamation point! This will indicate a **red flag** on the schedule (red box with a #1) for their next appointment. When you are looking at the next day’s schedule to call all incoming evaluations, you will see the populated red box as a reminder to call this patient as well to confirm their attendance for tomorrow’s appointment.
- **Removing Copays** **from Agile** – if a patient who previously had a copay to be collected and now no longer owes it due to their Deductible & OOP being met, or any other insurance reason stating as such, you can **remove** that copay from the copay field in Agile. If you don’t, that copay will populate every time you check that patient in. This not only skews your % of copays collected, it can potentially lead to us having to issue a refund if that copay was no longer due.
- **TIP #1**

> Agile Copay Field – if a patient’s insurance verification states they owe a “Copay”, enter that dollar ($) amount into the Copay Field in Agile (below). If a patient does not owe a copay, but owes a coinsurance percentage (%), you can enter that percentage into the “copay” field, but you must change the dropdown to a percentage and not convert it to a dollar amount. Any deviation from this will skew the accurate collection amounts.
> 
> 
> **ENTERING A COPAY ENTERING A COINSURANCE**
> 
- **TIP #2**

> Clinic Daily Overview Report – when collecting per diem calculated coinsurances, you must enter a % in the Copay field within Agile. Your Clinic Daily Overview Report will show you that a % needs to be collected on that patient, not a $ figure as previously existed. This way the % accurately tracks to a coinsurance collection, not a copay collection. Create a list of those per diem calculated insurances and keep them near the FO computer so anyone collecting from a patient is collecting the correct amounts. A tip on having those $ figures appear on the patients case (you have to go to the case regardless to post the payment) are listed below. Use your cheat sheet and place the following alert note on the patient’s case:
> 
1. Add an Alert Note to Case Home Page under Account Notes
    1. Example: “Daily Co-Ins $10.60!”
- **Payment Arrangements** – while you have some leverage here, do know that we want to help our patient’s the best we can, but there are times when we cannot make an official payment arrangement. Self Pays – these are due at Time of Service. Work with your patients locally at the clinic. We cannot let Self Pay patient’s build up a bill, nor can they ever set up a payment arrangement with billing. It states in their paperwork that these payments are due at Time of Service; however, use your judgment when it comes to making in-house arrangements, knowing that those balances must not accumulate and must be paid in full at the clinic.
- **Canceling Appts** – Always mark cancel if not rescheduling. System will recognize if it is outside the 24-hour timeframe and indicate it as a VOID so it doesn’t count against your cancellation %. If you cancel within the 24-hour timeframe, it will count towards your cancellation percentage. If a patient has a block of future appts to cancel, you mark them as a Cancel and checkbox the statement that indicates “cancel all future appointments”. By doing this the future appointments will not count towards your cancellation percentage.
- **Merging cases w/existing patient MRN number (Medical Record Number)** – when onboarding a new-patient the FOC must do a search within Agile to identify if there is an existing patient within our system. The FOC must confirm that **all** data is identical prior to attaching a case to an existing MRN number. You must confirm every item of demographic information currently listed is **exact** before merging. All demographic information is shared across all cases and if it is removed, it clears it from all existing cases. The consequences of merging cases when it is not identical can be disastrous, which include skewing the POC of a patient for the clinician, statements sent to wrong patients, SSNs being saved and/or shared under the incorrect person, etc.
- **Reviewing Front Office Adjustments** – an FOC should be reviewing the REV-Adjustments Profile Report on a regular basis throughout the current month. This report will show you what adjustments are coming in and filtering through it to see which are Front Office Authorization and/or Visit Limit adjustments
- **Managing Red Alerts in Agile** – within a patient’s case you will occasionally see red boxes with a number within it. These are “alerts of items that are missing and need to be fixed”. Often-times you will hear me say “fix the red”, as this is what I am referencing. If you hover over the number within the patient’s case it will tell you exactly what is needed (i.e., Marketing source, Evaluation Date, Assignment of Benefits, Onset Date, Body region, etc., is missing). As you see them, fix them, as these items need to be fixed in order to complete an entire patient’s chart.
- **Patient Chart Audits** – the FOC needs to make sure that every patient has all uploaded administrative documents (all registration and billing documents) scanned into their chart. A new patient’s paperwork must be scanned and attached with all pertinent information pertaining to their case the same day as their evaluation.

**2020 CALENDAR YEAR VERIFICATION PROCESS**

**PARTNERS NOT CURRENTLY TRANSITIONED TO CIV**

- Reverification of insurance remains status quo – please follow your current process for the new Calendar Year

**CENTRAL INSURANCE VERIFICATION PROCESS**

- Reverification of same insurance(s) will ***only take place if there are changes to subscriber ID and/or group ID***. If all information is exactly the same, FOC needs to update coverage end date to 12/31/2020 in Agile along with documenting within the Insurance tab with the following message ***“Insurance remains same for CY 2020; date extension applied”***
    - If a copay was removed from 2019 due to OOP & DED being met, FOC must reenter that copay into the copay field in Agile
- **If changes to insurance** à copy and scan card to patient’s chart à follow current process of verification of benefits
- **Auto/Work Comp/Liability Cases** – when building a case with any of these accident types, the “accident box” ***must*** be checked on the referral tab. Once checked, **2 dropdown boxes appear that must be completed (3 dropdown boxes if it’s an MVA/AUTO)**.
    - ***Accident Type*** = choose either Work Comp, Auto or Liability
    - ***Accident Date*** = date the accident took place (ask patient and/or Nurse Case Manager/Adjustor)
- ***State where Accident occurred (only if Auto selected)*** = State that the accident took place in (ask the patient, do NOT enter the Eval date)
- ***Please Note: accident info must be included even if we are billing health insurance**
- **Updated Plan of Care/Progress Note (POC/PN) with MD Signature** – when you receive a signed PN/POC from the Physician, this serves as the most recent script for therapy and trumps the existing script. The date of the Rx that we use is the date the PN/POC was written by the treating therapist, not the date the physician signs it (example: POC created and signed by the treating clinician dated 11/28/2019, signed and returned from the Physician on 12/14/2019) The date of this effective script would be 11/28/2019.

**SELF PAY ACCOUNTS**

- Just a friendly reminder that all Self Pay payments are due at the time of service, prior to treatment. There are no exceptions. We cannot bill for services rendered after they take place. Having provided services prior to payment opens us up to not getting paid at all due to no photo id/insurance on file.

**PATIENT REFUNDS**

- If a patient is in need of a refund, FOC’s can submit a support ticket and attach the patient refund paperwork along with the ticket. The paperwork is located on the company Intranet. Also, we aren’t able to issue a refund until all of the DOS have been processed through the patient's insurance company.
- **Saturday evaluations – CIV** – for those partners on CIV and currently treating patients on Saturdays, please be sure to submit a helpscout ticket on Fridays for any scheduled Saturday evaluations.
- **Patient’s insurance change** – we need to ensure that when onboarding a patient and obtaining insurance(s) that we clarify that they have presented all insurance plans. In addition, we need to ask patients to inform us immediately should an insurance change take place, either adding, removing or changing a current insurance, we are made aware as soon as the change takes place to ensure proper billing and prevent insurance denials. It is best practice to always note a patient’s case with any information that pertains to the patient and our clinics. Documenting a quick note on the Home Page, **insurance change noted, is certainly feasible
- **Chart Audits** – all new patient charts need to be audited weekly in your clinic by the FOC. Any material that is missing should be scanned in and/or reaching out to the patient to obtain in order to build a solid and complete patient chart
- **Encounters on Hold** - This report will identify statements that you have put on hold, also Agile will automatically place a claim on hold if authorization is required but not yet added into the system. These claims then need to be manually released from hold after the authorization information is added. You will need to check to see if cases need to be released, otherwise claims will be denied due to not filing timely
- **Online patient paperwork not received in clinic shared email box** – we need to first ask the patient if they received a confirmation email after submission. If they did receive this email and you do not have it in your shared email box [FOCPartnerClinic@allianceptp.com](mailto:FOCPartnerClinic@allianceptp.com), please reach out to other clinics within your brand. Furthermore, you should be checking this email on a regular basis throughout the day and should you have another clinics paperwork in your email box, please make sure to contact that clinic to make them aware and forward it to them.
- **FOC & CD shared email [FOCPartnerClinic@allianceptp.com](mailto:FOCPartnerClinic@allianceptp.com)** – both the FOC as well as the CD should have this shared email visible and accessible to be checking for new patient requests, questions, paperwork, etc., on a regular and ongoing basis.

Please replace the New Patient Chart Audit form previously sent to you all earlier this week with the one above. The additional item that we have added to this audit is beneath the Insurance section. This would only apply to Traditional Medicare part B patients.

> I have attached both the new chart audit form as well as a reference of the Secondary Payer form that is often missed, below.
> 

Just a friendly reminder since this has come up again recently and we have a number of new hires. Please do not take out the insurance coverage when a patient goes from insurance to self-pay, or hit the patient pay button when they change to self-pay as it deletes the insurance. You should end the current policy, update the coverage and the add new coverage as patient pay.

Please see example below:

Example: Patient treated from 2019 to 2020. Policy ended on 12/31 and new one began with 60 visits for the year and new deductible and out of pocket amount. (see below patient becoming a self-pay)

Policy ending:

Patient becoming self-pay as of 09/01/20: