# Homelink

Department: Front Office
Last edited: June 1, 2023 2:24 AM
Last edited by: Addison
Type: Done

> ATTACHMENT A
> 
> 
> **HOMELINK THERAPY NETWORK (HTN)**
> 
> Workers Compensation Pricing Schedule
> 
> With the appropriate authorization, Provider agrees to bill their usual charges for services provided pursuant to this Agreement, and will accept as payment in full the following:
> 
> HTN will reimburse the lesser of (a) go% of a mandated state fee schedule when applicable, (B) go% of U&C (established by Fair Health at the goth percentile referenced to specific geographic location) or (c) 90% of the billed charges, up to a maximum day rate as indicated below.
> 
> Initial evaluations (PT Evaluation CPT codes 97161, 97162, 97163) and OT Evaluation CPT codes (97165, 97166, 97167) are excluded from the daily maximum reimbursement and will be paid separately for that session in addition to the therapy provided. The reimbursement for the initial evaluation will be based on the lesser of (a) go% of a mandated state fee schedule when applicable, (b) go% of U&C (established by Fair Health at the goth percentile referenced to specific geographic location) or (c) 90% of the billed charges.
> 
> The lesser of language is included as a default if the submitted charges do not exceed the specific per Day Rate where services are provided.
> 
> Rates are based on current payor contracts. There may be circumstances, such as potential for increased volume of referrals that necessitate an alternate reimbursement model for certain payors. Providers will be notified of any alternate reimbursement model upon completion of that contract.
> 
> Carve Out Codes
> 
> Functional Capacity Evaluations (97750) - will be reimbursed according to the lessor of (a) go% of state fee schedule when applicable, (b) go% of U&C (established by Fair Health at the goth percentile referenced to a specific geographic location), or (c) 90% of billed charges. The Functional Reporting Criteria are posted as Attachment D. Work Conditioning, Initial two hours (97545) and each additional hour of work conditioning (97546) will be reimbursed at the lesser of (a) go% of the mandated state fee schedule when applicable, (b) go%0f U&C (established by Fair Health at the goth percentile referenced to the specific geographic location) or (c) 90% of the billed charges. FCE and Work Conditioning will not be subject to the maximum Day Rate.
> 
> All other procedures billed and not listed above will be reimbursed at the lesser of (a) go% of a mandated state fee schedule when applicable, (b) go% of U&C (established by Fair Health at the goth percentile referenced to specific geographic location) or (c) 90% of the billed charges. These procedures must be preauthorized by HTN.
> 
> Where incidental or inclusive to provided services, medical supplies will not be allowed as a separate expense or reimbursement.
> 
> DME and medical supplies must receive prior approval through HTN. Reimbursement rates for DME or medical supplies dispensed and billed by your office will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
> 

| State [ T | FEE/UC | FEE% of
Discou | UCR%of
Discount I..- | Provider Day Rat |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ARIZONA | FEE | 20% | NA | $110.00 |
| KANSAS | FEE | 20% | NA | $90.00 |
| LOUISIANA | FEE | 20% | NA | $105.00 |
| MAINE | FEE | 20% | NA | $125.00 |
| MICHIGAN | FEE | 20% | NA | $100.00 |
| MISSOURI | UCR | NA | 20% | $125.00 |
| NEW JERSEY | UCR | NA | 20% | $125.00 |
| NEW MEXICO | FEE | 20% | NA | $105.00 |
| NORTH CAROLINA | FEE | 20% | NA | $105.00 |
| PENNSYLVANIA | FEE | 20% | NA | $110.00 |
| TEXAS | FEE | 20% | NA | $115.00 |
| WASHINGTON | FEE 20% | NA | $110.00 |  |
| WISCONSIN | UCR | NA | 20% | $155.00 |

> Acknowledged By:
> 
> 
> Name: & Stephanie Gardner Title: Director of Revenue Cycle Provider Name: Alliance Physical Therapy Group, LLC Date: 02/16/21
> 
> Tax ID Number: 38-349635 Group NPI Number: NA
> 
> **ATTACHMENT B**
> 
> **HOMELINK THERAPY NETWORK CLINICAL PROTOCOLS**
> 
- Participating Provider should have the ability to schedule a Covered Person within twenty-four to forty-eight hours from referral.
- Treatment visits should be scheduled appropriately and aggressively to promote early return to work. Home Exercise Programs should be developed at the initial visit and documentation of the patient's compliance recorded as part of their progress notes.
- The focus of the rehabilitation process must be functionally driven for a prompt return to work.
- The Initial Referral from HTN will be for the Initial Evaluation and the first day of therapeutic services. Based on clinical presentation including the physician's script and co-morbidities, HTN will provide promptly the authorization for additional visits.
- Participating Provider agrees to have the Covered Person fill out appropriate Care Connections questionnaires at the time of the initial visit and every fifth visit or two weeks, whichever is first. Participating Provider agrees to submit completed Care Connections questionnaires to HTN upon completion of forms.
- The clinic should track the number of visits authorized and prior to the completion of that number of authorized visits, should communicate to HTN the anticipated number of visits that may be needed through clear, concise documentation of such need.
- A discharge summary by fax or phone call should be sent to physician and the claims manager (case manager and/or adjustor) on record. All patient discharges should be reported to HTN within 24 hours of discharge.
- Participating Provider should fax or otherwise transmit to HTN within 24 hours, a copy of the Initial Evaluation summary report outlining findings, proposed treatment, expected results and anticipated disability time frame.
- The first follow up visit should begin within 72 hours of the initial evaluation. All subsequent visits should be in a timely and consistent fashion to promote prompt recovery.
- All progress notes will be required to be completed for each daily visit. The progress note should include the following:
    - **Time in/out**
    - **Time spent per each code billed**
    - **Changes in the patient's subjective presentation**
    - **Changes in the patient's objective presentation**
    - **Daily assessment of the patient's condition (e.g. improvement, decline, no change)**
    - **Any changes** in **the treatment plan compared to previous documentation**
    - **Update on outcomes score and pain scale should be done every two weeks or 5 visits (whichever comes first)**
    - **Cancellations and no-show visits must be documented with the reason included**
- Participating Provider will provide HTN a copy of daily notes on a weekly basis.
- All therapy visits will be required to be documented and billed in reports and on claims submissions as to the specific minutes associated with treatment.
- Supervision of therapy will follow the applicable state practice guidelines.
- All FCE's should be confirmed the night before the appointment and documentation of cancellations or no shows should be communicated with the physician and claims manager.
- HTN'S FCE Criteria is posted as Attachment C.
- HTN may request evaluation of job descriptions and completion of return to work restriction forms so that the injured Covered Person can be returned to productive activity. A re­ evaluation charge for these testing and measurements will be authorized as a Covered Service if requested by HTN or if the treating therapist identifies the intent of that service and receives pre-authorization from HTN.
- Participating Provider may be requested to provide status report on claimant(s) continuing to receive treatment outside evidence-based parameters. In such cases, HTN will initiate such request by faxing to Participating Provider a questionnaire to be completed by the treating therapist who provides insight of claimant's compliance and progress.
- Re-evaluations (97164, 97168) will be allowed only if a patient presents with the following:
    - A patient returns from an extended period of absence from physical therapy (greater than one month)
    - A patient presents with a significant change in condition
    - HTN requests an evaluation of job descriptions and completion of return to work restriction forms so the injured covered person can be returned to productive activity and the re-evaluation is pre-authorized

> Consistently performing re-evaluations without the patient meeting the above criteria may trigger a review of documentation to determine if one of the above criteria supported the billing of a re-evaluation.
> 
- An Initial Evaluation will be allowed after a patient's return from a surgical procedure.
- A Work Conditioning Evaluation will be allowed (up to 10 units/ 97750) on any patient not seen by a provider within your organization, prior to initiating work conditioning. Prior authorization is required.
- HTN will use best efforts to obtain prior to a patient scheduled for an FCE, the following:
    - Documentation from previous course of care from prior therapist and physician
    - A job description
    - Surgical and imaging reports if applicable.
- All Covered Services will be coordinated with the Covered Person's Payor through HTN.
- If questions arise as to the patient's clinical care or in the case of FCE's in which additional job function information might be needed to adequately assess the patient, HTN should be contacted. HTN will in turn contact the claims manager (case manager and/or adjustor) for this information.
- HTN will share the case manager or adjustor's contact information if it is on the patient file for direct therapist to case manager/adjustor discourse about clinical information. HTN will use best efforts to facilitate timely response to all clinical inquiries received by Participating Provider.
- The Participating Provider will follow a Cancellation/ No Show policy. It is recommended that the provider attempt to re-schedule the patient within 2 days of the specific appointment scheduled, and if unsuccessful, HTN should be notified. Part of the re-scheduling process will be dialogue that the claimant may be reported as non-compliant and may be putting their TTD at risk by being so.
- The original bill for each Covered Person and the corresponding clinical documentation must be sent to HTN for each Covered Individual treated by Participating Provider.
- Participating Provider must complete and transmit to HTN all status reports requested by HTN within 48 hours of these status report requests.

> ATTACHMENT C
> 
> 
> **HOMELINK THERAPY NETWORK**
> 
> **FUNCTIONAL CAPACITY EVALUATION REPORT CRITERIA**
> 
> A functional capacity evaluation (FCE) is a detailed examination and evaluation that objectively measures the client's current level of function primarily within the context of the demands of competitive employment. Measurements of function from an FCE may be compared to the physical demands of the job or other functional activities and are used to make return to work/activity decisions, disability determinations or to generate a rehabilitation plan. An FCE measures the ability of an individual to perform functional or work related tasks and predicts the potential to sustain these tasks over a defined time frame.
> 
> **The report should include the following:**
> 
> **Statement of the purpose of the FCE or question(s) to be answered may include the following:**
> 
> Purpose*
> 
- Determination of work function/level as defined by the Dictionary of Occupational Titles (DOT)
- Return to work and job placement decisions and programs
- Disability evaluation
- Intervention and treatment planning
- Case management and case closure

> Questions*
> 
- Do the client's abilities match the physical demands of his/her regular job?
- Did the client appear to exhibit full physical effort?
- Do reported results appear functionally valid? (Was the functional level demonstrated by the client an accurate representation of his/her current abilities?)
- Do the client's reports of disability and pain appear to be reliable?
- If the client cannot return to their regular job, at what level of function are they performing?
- What is the client's current work function/level as defined by the DOT?

> * Results in the report should satisfy the stated purpose(s) and/or answer the question(s) with documentation to support findings
> 
> 
> **Statement of projected ability to sustain the demonstrated level for a specific time period (most commonly 8 hours) with documentation to support findings**
> 
> **Provide support for level of effort and reliability determination or justification for functional validity of results statement.**
> 
> Examples:
> 
- Comparison of reported/perceived level of activity to demonstrated
- Multi-Dimensional Task Ability Profile (MTAP)
- Spinal/Hand Function Sort
- Oswestry, NDI, LEFS, DASH
- Distraction-based testing to compare subjective and objective findings
- Measurable changes in movement and/or function that correlates to pain reports
- Rapid Exchange Grip test
- Heart rate changes
- XRTS Hand Strength Assessment
- XRTS Lever Arm

> Statement of client's predicted ability in the absence of less than full effort or invalid results with supporting documentation
> 
> 
> **Signed statement of client's acknowledgement/agreement to participate in the FCE Client information and history:**
> 
- Name
- Date of birth
- Date of injury/illness
- Date of FCE
- Gender
- Physician
- Referral source
- Employer
- Job title
- Current work status
- Start and end time and/or total time for FCE
- Baseline heart rate and blood pressure with monitoring during the FCE and post FCE measurements
- Injury/illness history
- Treatment history
- Current medications
- Level and area(s) of reported pain

> Musculoskeletal examination with comment on effect of any impairment on demonstrated functional ability
> 
> 
> **Results of Material Handling tasks Results of Non-material Handling tasks**
> 
> **Provide references for tests and measures used to support findings**
> 
> **Policy of HTN:**
> 
- All FCE appointments will be pre-approved by HTN.
- All FCE's will be confirmed within 24 hours of the scheduled appointment time.
- There is no reimbursement for a cancellation or no show.
- The report must boldly state on the first page of the report as to the validity or non-validity of the evaluated injured worker.
- Prior to the first FCE performed for an HTN client by the Participating Provider, the provider will forward a blinded sample of a previously performed FCE to the Clinical Director (all contact information will be forwarded with the "HTN Welcome Packet") for approval of format and informational requirements. The Clinical Director will review and provide approval of format and content for use with HTN clients.
- Once the Participating Provider has had a clinical review of the FCE, all future FCE's may be forwarded directly to the referral source on record with a copy to HTN.