# New Hire Process 2023

Department: HR, TA
Last edited: August 17, 2023 11:33 AM
Last edited by: Addison

**New Hire Process**

1. TA Team receives a *[Job Offer Request Form](https://www.notion.so/Job-Offer-Request-Form-2023-9f4801464d6c4b7db7da61ef20c3f6c5?pvs=21)* from a Recruiter. This form is required to begin the hiring process.
2. A job offers and applicable documents are sent to the candidate.
3. TA receives a signed job offer and required forms from the candidate. If a signed offer and forms are not returned in a timely manner, follow-up communication is initiated.
4. Once the required documents for your location are completed and received, TA completes a background check and verification of licensure/certification, as appropriate.
5. Once the background check is completed and the licensure/certification is verified, a clearance email is sent to the hiring manager with an assigned employee number.

<aside>
⚠️ **This clearance email notification must be received before the employee can begin working.**

<aside>
⚠️ The clearance email will also be sent to the Agile Team for applicable clinicians. Helpdesk will also be copied on the clearance email so an email address can be generated for the new hire, if applicable.

</aside>

</aside>

1. Colleen/Charli will send the signed IT Policy Acknowledgement to the Helpdesk for the user to obtain general system access.
2. The hiring manager must **notify Colleen/Charli of the actual start date as soon as possible** to ensure the employee has a professional start, including time capture, system access, etc.

<aside>
⚠️ If there is a change in the start date, notify HR immediately. This could affect their benefit eligibility date.

</aside>

1. The hiring manager or his/her designee must complete an I-9 Form with the employee on their **first day of employment** and scan or fax a copy to HR on that same day. The **original completed I-9** should then be mailed to Colleen’s attention within three days of the start date.
2. On the employee’s first day, the employee will receive an email regarding online orientation through MedBridge. This email will contain detailed instructions and log in information specific to each employee.
    - Each assigned knowledge track has a specific deadline, up to 28 days from their start date.
    - The employee will also receive a separate email regarding their benefit eligibility, if applicable.

| Contact: |  |
| --- | --- |
| Kambra Laninga | Alliance Physical Therapy Partners |
| 616-356-5033 | 625 Kenmoor Ave SE Suite 100 |
| mailto:Kambra.Laninga@allianceptp.com | Grand Rapids, MI 49546 |