# Mentorship

***Mentoring can help both new and seasoned PTs and PTA s grow in their careers, regardless of whether they are being mentored or doing the mentoring themselves.-APTA***

If we look at mentoring from a broader perspective, we can see that it really goes on all the time. It is not just the traditional mentor-protégé model, mentoring actually occurs at many levels.  We can all be mentors!  Below are a few tips for mentoring:

- **Get in the mentoring spirit** put out your hand and say hello, invite someone to a meeting, be willing to listen to all someone's questions and answer them all
- **Offer a supportive environment for mentoring opportunities** a good mentor is approachable and available within whatever mentoring relationship is established
- **Venture into the mentor role** a good mentor encourages the protege to acquire the "tools" to reach their goals. A good mentor does not "feed" information and answers to the protege, but makes the protege think and assess

Effective mentoring does not necessarily take a great deal of time. In some instances, a good mentor can provide help in just a few minutes by making the right suggestion or asking the right question.

**What do you get out of being a mentor?**

- makes you feel good.
- makes you look good.
- provides an opportunity to expand your professional network and obtain a fresh perspective
- renews your enthusiasm for the profession

**Alliance PTP wants to support mentorship.  Coming soon, look for more opportunities for you to get involved!**

---

[PT Mentorship](Mentorship%20ddd527858ba1429f8f32fa57f72338e3/PT%20Mentorship%207e31f09492b840198259cbb9791a7b78.md)

[PTA Mentorship](Mentorship%20ddd527858ba1429f8f32fa57f72338e3/PTA%20Mentorship%20d9443e9949eb41cc99823d40ab49b6a8.md)