# TIPS FOR THE CONTINUING EDUCATION COURSE REVIEWER

Thank you for your participation as a Continuing Education (CE) Course Reviewer.  Asa CE Course Reviewer, your role is to help provide the requesting clinician support and guidance so the clinician will return from a CE course with improved clinical skills and patient experience.

When reviewing a request, it is important to be sensitive to the needs of your Partner group and budgetary constraints.  This balance can be a challenge.  

Below are some tips to assist you in the decision-making process(not all categories are required for CE course approval):

View CE courses as an investment in the clinician.Will the CE course provide the clinician with enhanced skill level in an area both the clinician, through self reflection, and you, as the CE Course Reviewer, determine needs improvement?Spread their wings.Does the CE course provide the clinician with new information vs. simply reinforcing what they already know or excel in?Encouragethe clinician to find a CE course that will provide them with genuinely new knowledge based on principles that are not familiar.Seek CE courses that challenge the clinician.Challenges to our professional knowledge are good.  CE courses thatprovokedecision-making processes and treatment paradigms will engage the clinician in a different way than simply covering territory they already know.This will allow the clinician toreflect on the new knowledge gained and implement positive changes in their practice.Fill a service gap.Is the CE course part of a program for certification, specialization orexpertisethat will provide the practice with a new line of service?Consider business development.Does the CE course provide the clinician and the practice with the improved ability to compete with other area practices, reach the community, generate more referrals, and/or drive marketing initiatives?Perform a costcomparison for return on investment(ROI)vs. your practice/clinic budget.Does the practice/clinic budgetsupport the cost of the CE course?  Consider future ROI...will this CE course get “the most bang for the buck”?Consider CE course location and duration.Is the CE course available close by or is travel necessary?  How much time will the clinician need away from the clinic for the CE course?  Will the CE course be available regionally if the clinician waited another 3-6 months?  Could a similar learning experience be providedby another CE provider that offers a CEcourse in your area?Challenge the evidence-based profile of the learning activity.Request that the clinician provide you with current “best-practice” standards for the area of interest.  Can they provide appropriate sources that will support the value of the CE course chosen?

- Align CE courses with the clinician’s Professional Development Plan (PDP).Review the clinician’s PDP.  Does the CE course help to reach the goals established in their PDP?
- Perform an assessment of operational needs in terms of referral basis.Will completing a particular CE course drive improved patient outcomes and/or increased referrals?