# Phone Etiquette

# Phone Etiquette:

> The Front Office Coordinator is expected to answer all incoming telephone calls. We want to avoid callers going to voicemail at all possible times. If you have to place a caller on hold, please be sure to obtain their name and phone number before doing so.
> 

### Phone Skills:

1. Always state when answering the phone, “Thank you for calling Physical Therapy (location). This is (your name), how may I help you?”
2. If a Physician, NCM or Adjustor is calling for the PT, ask the caller to be placed on hold while you inform the PT of the call as it is expected they will take that call. If any other caller, please discuss with your CD what calls you should interrupt for.
3. When taking messages please ask the caller to spell their name, date & time of the call, contact number, message and a good time to return the call. Be sure to initial the message so the recipient can reach out to you should there be a question regarding the message.
4. If it is a new patient referral follow the new patient procedures.

### Voicemail:

> First thing in the morning the FOC should check to see if there are any voicemail messages and handle them accordingly. New patient calls take precedence and should always be contacted immediately.
> 
> 
> Continue to monitor your voicemail throughout the day. To check your voicemail, follow these steps:
> 
1. If the voicemail indicator light is blinking, select the voicemail button on your phone.
2. Enter your password/pin when prompted followed by the # sign
3. Listen to the options to hear any unheard messages
4. Write down all information provided as stated above, handle the call if able and if not, give to the appropriate person.
5. Delete the message
6. Hang up.

### Handling Cancellations:

> CANCELLATION AND NO-SHOW POLICY: Patients are expected to keep all scheduled appointments to maximize the benefits of their treatment plan. If a patient is unable to make a scheduled appointment, the patient is expected to give 24 hours advance notice as well as rescheduling of the appointment.
> 
> 
> Please reach out to your Clinic Director for patients who frequently cancel/no show and how those should be addressed. Patients who cancel without notice or no show their appointment can be charged a cancellation fee.
> 
> Cancellations: When someone calls to cancel a patient’s appointment (either the patient or an authorized family member/friend) please look up the appointment and attempt to reschedule by providing an alternate day & time.
> 
> If they cannot reschedule that day, tell them we will reschedule for another day that week to make up their missed appointment. Inform them the Physical Therapist has designed a program to get them better, and missing appointments would not be beneficial to reaching their goals. This too should be communicated with the clinician and patient during their appointments.
> 
> If the patient decides they cannot come in at all that day and cannot reschedule for the same week, cancel it in Agile RPM. Click on the patient’s name/slot in the schedule to pull up the appointment and click Cancel/No show. You will then add a note as to why the appointment is being canceled and when/if it has been rescheduled.
> 
> Verbally confirm the patient’s next appointment while on the phone with them.
> 
> If someone leaves a voicemail after hours to cancel: Note the time of the message; the same policy applies in regard to the patient, less than 24 hours (same day) is a Cancellation, greater than 24 hours (day before or more) is not. However, any Cancellation left on the answering machine during non- business hours counts as a Cancellation in your statistics if it is not rescheduled within the same week.
> 
> No Shows: Occasionally, patients do not show up for their appointments. Most likely they have forgotten about their appointment. The FOC needs to call all patients who do not show up for their appointment. If a patient has not arrived within 15 minutes of their appointment time, the FOC must call the patient to check if they are ok and on their way to their appointment. If you reach voicemail, leave a message stating your name and where you are calling from, asking the patient to return your call.
> 
> If the patient does not reschedule, always note why they did not reschedule in the Notes section of the
> 
> patient’s case. Be sure to inform the therapist of their schedule change.
>